How does this program generate sound?

  The program models a shape, either a tube or a rod, as a series of masses
  connected together by springs of unit length.  This virtual object is then
  hit with a virtual hammer, and the resulting vibrations are simulated to
  produce sound.

How do you start this program?

  To start the program, select these menu items:
    Foot Menu > Multimedia > Power Station Industrializer

What is the basic idea of how this program is to be used?

  Once it is started, the basic idea of generating sounds is to first select
  your parameters, click the "Render" button, and then "Play", and possibly
  save the .WAV file by clicking "Save...".

How do I use this program?

  First, what you want to do is set the topology, or shape, of the item
  you want to use.  Select one of the tabs, "Tube", "Rod", or "Plane".

  Then, you want to set the size.  Larger sizes generally produce lower
  frequencies and a more sophisticated sound but take longer to render.

  Spring tension: Basically, all of the springs' unstretched size is one
  unit.  By setting the tenseness, you control the distance between springs
  along the longitudinal axis.

  *  A value < 1.0 causes the springs to be under compression, therefore they
     explode when rendered, and therefore the sound generated is explosive in
     nature.

  *  A value > 1.0 causes the springs to be under tension, therefore, the
     sound is cleaner, higher pitched,  and more chime-like the bigger
     this value gets.

  Spring speed: This is more or less the k constant in the spring equation
  F = -kx.  Higher values produce higher frequencies.

  Too high of spring tenseness and speed may produce a frequency too high
  to be heard.  If you hear nothing or only a click when a rendered sound
  is played, reduce one or both of these parameters and re-render it.

  Damping time sets friction in approximately the number of seconds it
  takes to reduce the object's energy to one half.

  Actuation: This sets the direction in which the object is hit.  If
  it is set to "Compression" the object is hit along the path of the
  longitudinal axis.  "Perpendicular Hit" means the object is hit
  on the side perpendicular to the longitudinal axis.  The latter produces
  a more percussive-like sound, while the former can produce sounds that
  are similar in nature to brass wind instruments.

  Velocity: Can change the harmonic content.  The higher the number, the
  harder the hit.

  Sample Length: Length of the sound produced in seconds.  A higher value
  produces a long sample.

  Once you have the parameters you'd like to try, click "Render" and wait
  a few seconds (it can take a while!).  Then press "Play" once the button
  becomes active again.  If you like the sound, save it by pressing the
  "Save..." button and entering in the file name into the Gtk file dialog
  box.
